# Myeloid-Leukemia-Prediction# Acute-Myeloid-Leukemia-Prediction
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a type of blood cancer that involves blood-forming cells in the bone marrow, specifically the cells that turn into white blood cells. In acute types of leukemia such as AML, immature bone marrow cells, called blast cells, do not mature, instead continue proliferation. Even though there is no certain cure for AML, there are treatments that can be highly effective. The Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatment (TARGET) is a program that uses a comprehensive genomic approach to determine molecular changes that lead to childhood cancers. The datasets of TARGET are available for researchers to develop and apply effective and less toxic treatment strategies. The TARGET AML tissues, and clinical data were obtained from patients who enrolled Children Oncology Group studies. The prediction of vital status in patients with leukemia has several advantages: researchers and physicians can measure the effects of new therapeutics in cancer patients by comparing the treatment outcomes with the expected outcomes from vital status prediction. Indeed, physicians can plan their treatment depending on the patient’s conditions. Also, predicting the high-risk patients, physicians may plan for particular treatment. In addition to the benefits for medical practitioners, predicting the lifespan allows patients to know their life expectancy (Bashiri and Ghazisaeedi, 2017). Analyzing the data of TAREGT AML is challenging, as the dataset has a lot of missing values and categorical data type with more than two values. Additionally, considering the number of features, observations are relatively low. Machine learning algorithms can play an important role in predicting acute myeloid leukemia. These algorithms take a wide range of methods that use various statistical approaches in order to infer relationships among features in large datasets and to predict the outcomes of the future data. Accordingly, choosing the proper machine learning technique for predicting data is required.
# Data Description
The dataset is consisting of TARGET Acute Myeloid Leukemia which encompasses 993 patients with 58 features. The dataset serves a collection of patients clinical characteristics such as gender, risk, group, age at diagnosis, year of diagnosis, year of last follow up, minimal residual disease (MRD) at end of course 1 and 2, complete remission bath the end of course 1 and 2, as well as their genetic information related to AML including bone marrow leukemic blast, chloroma, monosomy, trisomy, cytogenetic, the presence of chromosomal lesions. (Ryotokuji, 2016; Cheson and Bennett, 2003) Also, the dataset contains a column for vital status, which has two levels Dead and Alive. This feature is used as the output to classify the data into two groups of dead and alive. 
